---
layout: base
title:  PTP Reflection for Exams
---

PTP Reflection for Exams
------------------------
Because I was teaching my own section, I was required to develop my own exams for two reasons - for the practical and logistic reasons of reducing the threat of cheating, but also to address the fact that I emphasize different parts of the course than my mentor. While Dr. Heckman highly emphasized elements such as test driven development, I focused on the relationship between the programming language and the physical computer. As such, my exams often had several questions that required students to calculate where in memory data would be stored. For example, in [my second midterm]({{ site.portfolio }}classes/spring2014_csc230/midterm_evaluation.pdf), question 5 requires students to draw out the locations in memory that certain variables are pointing to, something that is much more hardware-specific than Dr. Heckman usually addresses. To prepare students for this, I was sure to talk about memory layouts in nearly every lecture that I gave.

A key theme in my midterm teaching evaluations was student discontent with the first exam. Many students expressed that it was long, difficult, and radically different from the practice examination. I took the comments to heart and looked at the differences between the performance on the exams in the fall semester when I was a TA, and performance did not appear to be particularly lower than this semester - CSC230 is a difficult course for many students, so this hardly comes as a surprise. However, there was a comment about the exam being different from the practice exam, and this made me think of an element directly from my teaching philosophy. I believe that students in engineering should be able to know what to expect to some degree. I intentionally made half of the questions on the second midterm variations on problems from the practice exam as a way of directly rewarding students who studied for the exam. Students did fairly well on those questions, showing that I need to better prepare students to deal with new and different kinds of questions.

Exams are just as much a way of assessing my own teaching as they are a way of assessing my students' learning. For example, students seemed to struggle quite a bit when it came to having to write programs and code snippets in class. This is very disappointing, but shows that perhaps there need to be more in-class exercises that are focused around writing code rather than simply answering short-answer questions. Most of the in-class exercises that deal with code emphasize syntax and correctness, but not the higher levels of problem solving that we expect for the homework assignments or exams. When half of the class misses an exam question, it's often evidence of something that the instructor should be doing differently, something that I took to heart when I read the evaluations, and intend to try out should I teach a class like this again.

